## Getting started

+ Open your text editor of choice. TextEdit works just fine.

## Sign up for GitHub

[GitHub free account sign up](https://github.com/signup/free)

+ You probably want to use your personal email rather than nclud email, as your Git user should be for _you_.

## Set Up Git

[GitHub help: Set Up Git](http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/)

## Download and install Git

+ Download the latest version of git
+ [code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/downloads/list?can=3](http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/downloads/list?can=3)
+ Download **Git Installer 1.7.9.3 - OS X - Snow Leopard - Intel Universal**
+ Once downloaded, open up the .dmg file
+ Open the package **git-1.7.9.3-intel-universal-snow-leopard.pkg**
+ Go through the installer

## Starting Terminal

Terminal is simple application that allows you to use your computer like a nerd from the 70's, making use of the _command line_. Nerds today still use the command line. As Git is for nerds, all of Git's functionality is only available through the command line when it first installed.

+ Open Terminal
  - Easiest way to open Spotlight ( Cmd + Space ) and find **Terminal**
  - Or, in Finder, find it in **/Applications/Utilities/**


Once opened, you'll see something like this prompt:

    Last login: Wed Mar 14 11:40:02 on ttys001
    computer-name:~ username$

Gross. 

+ Check that Git has been installed
+ type `which git`
+ type `git --version`

.

    which git
    # >> /usr/bin/git
    git --version
    # >> git version 1.7.9.3

## Continue setting up Git

+ Follow instructions on [GitHub Help: Set Up SSH Keys](http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/#_set_up_ssh_keys), proceed with steps 1-3.

Getting the SSH key can be a pain

+ After creating SSH keys, we need to open **id_rsa.pub**
+ open **~/.ssh** in Finder
  - If you are already in Terminal, type `open .`
  - or from Finder, go to folder ( _Go > Go to Folder_ or _Cmd + Shift + G_ ) **~/.ssh**
+ Open **id_rsa.pub** in your text editor
+ Add this key as instructed on the GitHub help page

## Starting GitHub app

+ Download the [GitHub Mac app](http://mac.github.com/)
+ In the preferences or intro screen, add your account details
  - Name
  - Email address
  - GitHub username or email address
  - GitHub password

## Repos

+ _Repo_ is short for _repository_. This is the name for our projects
+ Let's make a folder for our repos
+ In Finder, navigate to your home directory **~/** or **Cmd + Shift + H**
+ Create a new folder **repos**

## Cloning via GitHub app

+ Clone this repo via GitHub app. Click on [** Clone in Mac**](github-mac://openRepo/https://github.com/nclud/git-training)
+ In the save file prompt, clone this repo into your **~/repos/** folder as **git-training**

## Making changes

+ Let's create a new file
+ Duplicate **trainees/trainee-template.txt**
+ Change the name of **trainee-template copy.txt** to **firstname-lastinitial.txt**, i.e. **dave-d.txt**
+ Awesome, now let's commit this change

## Making a commit

+ Open the **GitHub app**
+ Select the **nclud/git-training** repo
+ In the left-hand icon navigation, select **Changes**
+ Under _Uncommited Changes_ you'll see your new file already selected. This means the new file is already _staged_. (We'll get into staging later)

Commits require a message -- a basic statement to keep track of what changes you have made.

+ In **commit summary**, enter a message about adding the file, i.e. : **Added dave-d trainee**
+ Then click the **Commit** button
+ You'll see your commit as **Unsynced Commit**
+ View **History** (left-hand icon navigation) and you'll see your commit

We'll be syncing this commit later. Let's keep making changes.

## Making more changes

+ Open your trainee file in a text editor (TextEdit works).
+ Add in your info.

For example:

    Name: Dave D
    Twitter: @desandro
    Favorite 90's TV show: MTV Rock n Jock
    Preferred breakfast food: English breakfast
    Last time jumped rope: Prolly 2 years ago
    Peanut butter [ smooth / chunky / ew gross ]: SUPERCHUNKY

+ Save the file

## Making another commit

+ Back in GitHub app, go to **Changes**
+ You'll see the lines you have _added_ in green, and the lines you have _removed_ in red

In our case, all the previous lines have been removed, and all the edited lines appear as added. This is just how Git handles changes.

+ Like with the last commit, add a message **Commit summary**, i.e. **Added trainee info for dave-d**
+ Click **Commit**

## Syncing

You should now have two unsynced commits.

+ Click the **Sync** button

Two things just happened:

1. Your changes were _pushed_ up to the GitHub remove server
2. Other's people changes were _pulled_ into your local repo

You should now see commits from your colleagues.

## Finish with GitHub app

Awesome!

You are now on your way to collaborating with Git.

### But...

The GitHub app is a great interface once for working with repos that are already on GitHub. But it doesn't do a good job with a lot of parts of Git. Like...

+ Creating a new repo
+ Checking out commits


## GitX

+ Creating new repo
+ Checking out commits
+ Push
+ pull


## GitHub site

+ viewing changes
+ submitting issues



